---
title: The Road So Far
date: "2021-06-28T20:12:03.284Z"
description: "The Road So Far"
---

I was overpacked in the beginning, and knew that I would naturally shed non-essential gear along the way. After all, the most essential thing needed isn't a thing at all, but a good flexible attitude. A typical 30 mile day: Wake at 3:30 am, drink coffee, pack up camp, and be on the road by 5:30 am. Walk three hours and take a break. Walk two hours and take a second break. Walk another two hours and take a third break. Walk one and a half hours and take a fourth break. Walk one and a half more hours and arrive at camp between 5 pm and 6 pm. Make dinner, then lay down to sleep between 8 pm and 9 pm. The sleeping disorder that's been haunting me the past couple years has gone away. I wasn't able to sleep more than a couple hours without waking up. After walking 20 to 30 miles a day, when I lay down, I fall asleep fast and sleep deeply throughout the night. No more nightmares either.

The most magical part of the trip so far, was waking from a dream in the afternoon, on a day off, treating myself to a hotel. I dreamt I was in an office building and I saw a little bird fall from a nest in the lobby hallway light fixture in the ceiling. An office worker picked the little bird up to help it, and we both looked at each other, knowing that the boss wouldn't be happy if he saw that the office worker was helping a bird while on the clock. Then I woke up and walked down to the Dollar General Store. As soon as I walked through the open doors, I noticed something small, colorful, and feathery fall from a sales rack out of sight behind the merchandise pegged to a wallboard display. I figured it was just a piece of merchandise that had fallen, but when I looked, I saw a hummingbird on the bottom of the sales rack, behind the merchandise. I used both hands, one to clear a path for the hummingbird, and the other hand to put down in front of the hummer. It hopped right on my finger and I gently placed it in my palm and showed the lady at the checkout counter on my way out the door. She announced to her associate that I caught the hummer, and said they'd been trying to catch it for a couple hours. Poor thing was exhausted. When I got outside, I let go with one hand and held my open palm out for it to fly away. It sat in my palm for about 30 seconds, then flew away.

June 28th, as I write this, I've walked 750 miles and have 250 miles to go. Yesterday, I took my first step on a Native American Reservation. The Ihanktonwan Nation Yankton Sioux Tribe. I experienced a warm welcome, with about 10 different cars pulling over on the highway to see if I needed a ride. The weather was 20°F cooler than it has been, with auspicious skies of light gentle rain. I learned the saddening news that Medicine Man, Leonard Crow Dog, passed away on June 6th. I read his book 20 years ago in an English class in Colorado. He has been a strong and inspiring teacher for the Lakota Nation, transmitting traditional cultural practices which were nearly eradicated by 100 years of forced assimilation into Euro-American tradition and culture. Flags flew at half mass throughout the Lakota Reservations in honor of his mighty spirit. It is an honor to be here. I wish to write more, but is time to get back on the road. I'll have time to write more in a week or two, when I arrive to Pine Ridge.
